Yeah, one or two student body presence before me was involved in fish camp and some other activities.
So, you know, it's really varied.
What I think drove me to do some of that was understanding the size and the complications of running something like that.
And two, it's representing students.
You don't necessarily have to have been in student government to represent students.
And I know that sounds kind of ironic, but
It has a thousand, there's about a thousand people in student government or a little bit over.
And most of those are part of individual committees that are not directly tied into representing students, but planning programs that are part of that.
So, you know, I've been to just as many, I was a part of just as many activities being corps commanders as I was student body president.
Some things are differently, some things are different obviously.
All right.
So, in fact, then your track is to move
to be Corps Commander and then be Student Body President?
That was what worked for me.
Do I think that that's what needs to be done?
No, not necessarily.
All right.
When did you, was your first Corps leadership step up with the Muster Committee?
No, I don't think they had anything to do with each other.
When did you first begin to step up?
I mean, I went to Corps staff on my junior year.
Okay.
But being involved in things outside of the Corps was not necessarily related to what I did inside the Corps.
Describe as far as you know what the process was that led to your selection as a member of Corps staff.
Well, I've always been, well, I don't know.
That's a tough question.
I mean, I pride myself on my work ethic.
That doesn't mean that I don't mess up a lot, but I pride myself on my work ethic, and I try to do different projects outside of just the unit level.
and I've spent a lot of time working with other outfits and other companies and and so I think that I wasn't it wasn't like I was just another face in the crowd I've always known a little quite a few people in the Corps so and I don't think that that was a shock I'd spent a lot of time trying to
publicize core activities and coordinate some core activities in terms of not just internally making them better, but visibly outside.
And I think so they, that seemed appealing to have to them on core staff, so that's what I did.
Did you begin to dream of this possibility as a sophomore?
No, no, I sure didn't.
That was not really a focus at all.
I was trying to be a, thought a yellow leader might be a fun thing to do, only to find out that's not what my buddies wanted me to do.
And so I didn't really know what to do after the end of my sophomore year.
That same friend I told you about when I showed up on that first day and got me to come into K-1 was the one who said, why don't you, you know, go to core staff because he was on core staff his junior year.
Did you apply for core staff?
Yes, applied for core staff.
Was there an interview process?
Yes, there was an interview process.
What kind of points do you think were most important in the interview process?
Oh, that's tough.
I've seen it from both sides, interviewing and then being the one interviewed.
And it's different.
Everybody's got different characteristics they're looking for when you're applying for a commander position.
That's a lot more selective and it's, they're a different group of people making that selection.
But staffs, people have always, the Commandant's office and the ROTC's office and different places like that have always given those commanders the flexibility to pick the staff that they want to work with.
So, you know, it is very subjective and you have the opportunity to do that.
So what was the Corps Commander my, you know, junior year looking for?
I don't know, but apparently he liked what I had to offer, so.
What kinds of questions do you remember that they ask in interviews?
They asked about different programs and things or what I felt was important about making people outside the Corps recognize about the Corps.
I remember them asking
What would be some policies I would enact if I was a Corps commander, which I had no idea, but that's okay.
But they asked me some of those questions.
Ask me about what I thought the biggest problems were in the Corps and how would I manage that, what were some problems and things that I would tackle.
So those were some of the questions.
And do you think that they expected a completely honest answer to your questions?
I think they did.
I don't know.
I think when I first interviewed, I probably would tell you that they wanted the answer that I thought was the right one politically, so to speak.
But when I had the opportunity to do the interviewing myself, I think that it's much more the honest answer.
that they're looking for than a political answer.
And the fact that you were in K-1?
That's correct.
Was that a plus or a minus?
I think it was probably a plus.
But they weren't, they didn't have an inside deal or anything like that?
No, no, no.
I think it was a plus in the sense that, you know, you got 20,
I'm trying to remember, I think it's 29 outfits in the Corps.
You know, just like any organization, there are good outfits and there are bad outfits.
And so clearly being a part of some have some higher merit than others.
And I think K-1 is a respected one, and at least I think if you were to ask, most people would be somewhere up on that list.
And so that certainly helps, but you still have to prove yourself.
Now, which branch?
It's Army.
Army.
And was there, if we look back in recent years, could we see a difference in the branches of the key leaders in the Corps?
Has there been one that's predominated?
That's a good question.
Typically Army.
Typically Army has.
But that's changed since I've been in.
If I were to look back, if I was to tell you all the ones from my sophomore year back, they're predominantly Army.
If you go from my junior year forward, it's predominantly Air Force.
And it's mixed bag.
I shouldn't say that.
It's kind of a mixed bag.
There's been two Air Force and one Marine Corps.
So it's been different.
It's been across the board.
So it's starting to get a lot more broad in terms of selection than what it used to be.
the so you're on the core staff as a junior what were your duties uh i did the public relations on the core core staff so planning different core events i think we worked on a it never happened since but but we worked on having i know a mixture with the core freshmen and sorority girls we did
I know we hosted a 5K run and did some other, we did work with the media in terms of publicizing activities and stuff we did.
Coordinated the March of Brazos and stuff like that.
Where were these mixers held these?
When we had it, it was held at, oh I don't know, I think it was out at
You know, I don't know what the name of it, but it's out by the Brazos Center.
I'm not sure if it was there or just north of there.
Was this a dance?
Yeah, it was a dance.
It was a dance.
A band and so forth?
Mm-hmm.
What did a young corps member wear to that kind of an event?
I think they told you as freshmen pretty often to wear, you know, slacks or khakis or something like that and then wear a, you know, a nice shirt.
That was pretty standard.
Okay.
So not, didn't have to wear a uniform?
No, didn't have to wear a uniform.
I mean, if it was on campus, you certainly did.
But off campus, you didn't necessarily have to.
Was it normal in the, by your days, normal in the evenings when you left campus not to wear a uniform?
I think when you left campus, I think it was probably pretty common.
But when you were, I guess, I don't know, it was kind of very, if you were doing any kind of activity, very often you were in corps uniform.
But if you were lounging around the dorms, if you were going to a friend's house, if you were going to catch a bite to eat somewhere off the campus.
Or going to the movies.
Or going to the movies or something like that.
Now, of course, you were in regular clothes.
Let's see.
Student indulgences.
How much alcohol would we have found in the dormitories, the core dorms?
You know, that varies from year to year, too.
This is kind of one of those odd times that I think it's changing.
So what it was like my freshman year, was it common to see a lot of it?
Yeah, I think it was.
At this point, if I was to walk back through the dorms, is it as common?
No.
So in five years, I think there's been a big pendulum.
I'm not going to say that's been necessarily well received.
Some of the reasons you don't find alcohol is not because people woke up one morning and said, we don't want to have alcohol in dorms.
It's because they decided that's not what they want.
The administration doesn't feel that that's appropriate to have that there.
So, you know, it's mixed signals, mixed attitudes about it, but they're certainly a lot less in dorms than what they would have seen five years ago.
Is the average undergraduate consuming less alcohol now, do you think, than five years ago?
I'm not really sure if they're consuming less.
Probably just at different places.
And it's beer?
Yeah, primarily beer.
Beer.
What about whiskey and other?
Alcohol?
It just kind of depends on the person.
It's mostly, mostly beer, but it's not like you, it's weird to see an individual who just has a fetish with drinking whiskey.
I guess that's okay, but.
And smoking, how, tobacco, how, what percentage do you think of folks, undergraduate smoke now?
There are certainly people who smoke.
We're talking about tobacco at this point.
Right.
No, I think there are certainly a lot of people who use tobacco.
I can't say if you asked me whether more people chewed or more people smoked, I'd say more people chewed than smoked.
Would it be one out of four?
I'd probably say that maybe one out of four.
I don't know if that's high or not.
You're starting to see a lot fewer people use it.
But I see fewer people, I see a reduction in smoking than I do a reduction in tobacco use.
Just down here, I think more people just have a tendency to chew or something like that.
What about smoking or chewing in the dorm?
Well, you can't, you have to go outside a smoke dorm.
You can't smoke in the... No fudging on that roof.
No, you don't.
I mean, the smoke alarms will go off, so you can't really do that.
What about chewing?
Now, that there's, that's pretty common in the dorm.
I'm not going to lie, that's very common.
But it's not, it's not approved.
No, you can do that.
I mean, nobody's ever outlawed that in the dorms.
There are some floors that are substance-free, not in the core, but outside of the core.
And my understanding is on those substance-free floors, none of that, nothing is supposed to be in the dorms.
But otherwise, no.
Nobody uses snuff anymore, do they?
Granny stuff, or you're talking about just like the, there's some stuff that I've seen out there you put in the hands and sniff it.
I very, very rarely ever see anybody with that.
That's pretty rare.
What about teflin?
Oh yeah, that's common.
Is that it?
Oh yeah.
And cigars?
I like cigars.
So yeah, there are people that like cigars.
I think fewer people.
It's a more expensive habit.
And how, what about drugs?
You know, I know it's around, but it's not very publicized.
I mean, I can't honestly tell you where it's at.
I'm pretty aware that if you were to go ask, you could probably find it.
But it's really kind of kept on a down low.
So I'm not really sure where it's at.
I think the cops apparently tend to really feel it's a problem at College Station.
And I don't know.
If you'd asked me just from looking around and seeing, I think compared to a lot of other cities, I think it's a lot less of a problem.
Even coming from my high school, I saw more of my high school than I see it here in college.
But I don't know if that's just because it's kept a lot more quiet around here or whether it's really used less.
I don't know.
Did you ever see in the dorms, did you ever see anybody that you knew was on to something?
There's only one person that I ever knew was doing drugs while in the corps in the dorms.
And I never, ever saw him in the dorms do it, but I knew he was.
Is there a specific advisor or advisory office for someone who has a drug problem?
Student life usually handles a lot of those issues.
I mean, maybe they refer you to counseling or counseling services or something like that.
But I think it's typically handled under the Department of Student Life.
See, like these questions that I've got here.
When I would ask somebody who was here 50 years ago, didn't even know the word heroin.
Had heard the word marijuana but had never seen it.
And supposedly if you smoked one marijuana cigarette, it would drive you crazy.
So times have changed a whole bunch.
Back to your leadership, you're on the Corps staff as a junior.
That's correct.
When do you begin even to dream about Corps commander?
Not until after Christmas time, spring semester, junior year.
You know, this was so hard for me to really understand is there are a lot of people who come in here and have specific intentions of doing one thing or the other.
One, I didn't know anything about the school when I showed up, so that's not a possibility.
And two, I didn't really understand what anybody did, so I couldn't say that I aspired to be something.
I certainly thought about being Corps Commander a lot later.
a lot later than most of the other applicants, at least the applicants that were seriously being considered anyway.
I certainly thought about it a lot later.
But once again, I thought about trying to be a senior Yale leader again, so I, you know, that was really what I first thought at first, and then changed my mind somewhere in the middle of the spring.
All right.
And there was no, was there a, I'll say an older adult
who gave you advice on these matters?
No, nobody gave me advice on this matter.
I think somewhere, I don't know whether I just thought about it a lot and sat down and figured out what it was I really wanted to do.
I'm not really sure exactly what it was that made me determine that, but somewhere in the process I thought, you know, I guess maybe my friends were Yale leaders.
A lot of my friends were Yale leaders.
And so I had the opportunity to do a lot of things.
I did a lot of traveling with them.
I went a lot of places with them and got to see a lot of things I did, only to find out that I didn't think it was really the greatest job out there.
They were certainly very, very busy in doing jobs that
It was fun, but once again, I think that's when I started to think, well, I like the fun, but I'd rather make an impact.
So I didn't really think that I could do that being a Yale leader.
So I think that's when I said, well, that's not really what I want to do.
Let me see if I take my chances running for court.
So you submit a written application.
Describe it.
The application is really, there's not much to the application.
I think there were a few questions to answer.
Most of it was down to the interview process.
About how many applied, how many were interviewed and so forth.
Describe that.
There, you submit your application, there's, I think we had about 30, 31, 32 applicants, something like that, that applied to be corps commander.
And I think that was pretty typical last year.
There was a decrease in the number of applicants.
I don't really know why.
I mean, I've been out of the Corps, so I don't really know.
But I think while I've been here, about 25, 30 applicants has been pretty standard.
From there, there's a first cut.
Obviously, they do make sure you're not on any kind of probation, make sure your grades are okay, and don't have any conduct violations and that kind of stuff.
And once they've done that, then some people get eliminated from that.
And once they take that list, I know that the interview board then meets to determine exactly how many people they want to interview.
And that criteria for what it is that determines the number of people they want to interview has changed.
It changes from year to year.
But they determined with my group, I think they interviewed 10.
I think out of that 31 or 32, I think they probably seriously considered 20 or so.
And then they decided to interview 10.
And then you went to the, that board, the corps commander selection board that night, and then they selected the corps commander and deputy corps commander.
All right.
How many, so there, how long was the interview?
Well, it lasted about a half hour.
It could have, you know, some people lasted longer, some people shorter.
So I think a half hour is probably approved.
What were some of the key questions?
Are you allowed to share those?
As far as I understand, it's not secret.
I mean, the only thing we were ever told not to discuss is the following year when we were interviewing is what it was that we discussed about individuals.
They asked everything from integration policies to alcohol policies to, you know, working just then leadership development questions, you know, team building, how you're working with individuals.
But a lot of it was vision-oriented, goal-oriented, things that you wanted to accomplish, what programs, or I shouldn't say programs, but what kind of policies do you think were going to make the Corps better?
What was going to make it a better organization, and how did you intend to do it?
And when you finished your interview, how well did you think you'd done?
I thought I'd done okay, but I didn't think that I would get it.
So, in fact, the next morning, now, there was no deputy corps commander application.
There was no such thing.
You applied for corps commander, and they, you could certainly go in the interview and tell them that you were more interested in doing deputy corps commander, and they would certainly consider that.
But I had actually encouraged one of my best friends at the time who was on corps staff with me.
to apply for deputy corps commander.
And it took him a while to convince him to do that, but he had done that.
And I think his interview went well, at least from what he told me.
We got up the next morning, and sure enough, we actually had a meeting, the both of us, to coordinate the March of Brazos.
And we had a meeting with the Commandant and the Deputy Commandant and a whole bunch of staff members.
So obviously, I was clearly trying to figure out how well it was that I was going to, what kind of attitude they were going to show while I was in that meeting.
And they just gave me the cold shoulder about everything, totally everything.
And they just pampered Mark, my friend who was on Corps staff with me.
just pampered him and so I was absolutely convinced that he had gotten it or at least gotten something one of the two but it turns out they picked both of us so you know that they were I guess just messing with us that afternoon.
As far as you know how long was it between the interview and the decision?
I think they finished sometime early in the morning 1 2 a.m something like that.
Was everybody interviewed in
Everybody was interviewed all together.
In one evening?
In one evening.
And then they decided they didn't leave until they made the decision.
And I think it was sometime early morning they made the decision.
And then they didn't announce until 4 o'clock the next afternoon.
And how did you learn?
How was, how were you informed of the decision?
They had a big announcement at 4 o'clock that following day.
So it was in the core center which has been built about.
Was it put on the wall or?
No, there was no, no, it was an announcement.
They brought all the different people who interviewed, different, anybody that wanted to attend could attend.
And they had a public announcement.
And how long did it take you to get to a phone, to make a phone call to somebody?
Uh, it probably took me almost two hours.
Oh, so you didn't, you didn't get to go, you didn't get to go call mom and dad?
No, there was just too many things to do after that.
There were, uh, you know, if it's not just, you know, people trying to congratulate you, there's somebody who wants to talk to you about something, and before you know it, it takes a while before you can get on the phone.
And, uh, did you prep for it in any way?
Prep for the interview, the corps commander interview.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, there were all kinds of things.
Looked at the Corps Development Council.
They had put together a book and some of their plans and things that they had looked at.
Evaluated some of that.
There was a council that was put together about 10 years ago in the early 90s, a Blue Ribbon Council.
I'm not really sure exactly what it was called anymore.
Looked at some of those policies that they had looked at.
Looked at the ones that had been implemented and the ones that hadn't.
Maybe where we should be going and talked to old Corps commanders.
But you didn't have someone do a sample interview where they'd ask you questions and you would?
No, I never had anyone do a sample interview with me.
I just asked a lot of questions and tried to get as prepared as I could.
All right.
Once you're selected, then what was the routine then?
It got very busy very fast.
The rest of the spring was spent trying to select different commanders, major unit commanders, alpha commanders, staffs.
You know, it got very, very busy very quick.
And so the rest of the spring was spent doing that, writing up your goals, writing up your, just your kind of visions and things like that.
And who was the key people you were working with on that?
My staff, obviously Mark, my friend Mark who was deputy corps commander that year, he and I spent a lot of time.
Mark Masacek.
Spell that.
M-A-C-I-C-E-K.
A good Czech name sounds like.
It is Czech.
So he and I spent a lot of time putting a lot of that together.
And of course as you start selecting new people, you start building that with new people.
But it took a while for us to get all that together.
Did anybody in any manner give you any no-no's, you don't do this or this or this?
Oh, there were all kinds of people who said different things.
I mean, I had a guy that the professor of military science didn't like one of the answers to my questions that evening and called me up the next day and wanted to have a sit-down discussion about why he was concerned about the answer to my question.
So there were lots of people.
Everybody had different things you could and couldn't do, and the only thing I came to really realize is that nobody really knew what you could and couldn't do.
It was very subjective.
What were your personal guidelines?
Well, I developed that.
Actually, I mean, if I was to go back and
regurgitated to you, I don't know if I could do that.
But I wrote all these things down and handed it out to all the commanders.
And, you know, a lot of they were basic policies.
I mean, I think consistency is important.
I think that even if you're wrong, at least if you're consistent, it makes it easier to evaluate your decisions and setting the example.
And there were a lot of different policies that you came up.
Much more of them were not
tangible things as more as philosophical attitudes and things that you did.
Alright, and you officially became Corps Commander at what date?
You know, I don't know the date.
It's always final review.
I mean, even though you're... Oh, it is.
Right.
You're selected somewhere in March or April, but you're not officially Corps Commander until you're final review.
Did the previous Corps Commander in those weeks when you all worked together, did he give you some advice?
He gave lots of different advice.
A lot of it was, you know, you have to just kind of bury yourself in it and figure it out.
Some things are easy to teach you and some things are not.
Some experiences you have to just get out there and learn.
So I think his philosophy was, let me show you what I've done, read it, figure it out.
If you have questions, come back.
And I think that that was important because
You know, even at the time, if he had spent 10 hours telling me everything, I don't know how much of it I really would have understood.
So he tried to kind of just coach me through it, advice that I do.
I don't know.
Probably don't believe everything that everybody tells you.
It's not all true, so.
All right.
General Hopgood, what was his role in all of this process?
His personality's different.
He was a lot more laid back unless he decided that he wanted to specifically play a role in something.
And I think I found that out later on in the year.
I remember going to ask him for something.
I don't remember what it was I went to go ask him for, but I said, you know, this is one of the things that we'd like to do.
And I'm concerned that, you know, I think that I've heard a lot of talk out there about not doing this program we'd like to work with.
And he said, well, he says, Forrest, he says, I wasn't the Corps commander when I was here.
I didn't want to be, and I don't want to be now.
So you make that decision and move on.
So, you know, very, very rarely did he interfere with what I wanted to do.
I think his biggest concern was was it well thought out and was it within the parameters?
wherever how wide those parameters were, were they inside the parameters of what he felt was okay.
Was he part of the interview board?
Yes, there were 20 people, 22 people on the interview board.
How many students and how many?
It was about 50-50 split.
Were there any females on the interview board?
I think there was one or two.
I'm not really sure.
And throughout all this process, correct me if I'm wrong, you were not planning to be a career military officer?
No, I was.
I was planning to be.
Yes, I had a scholarship once I got here to go into the military and to be a commissioner's lieutenant in the Army.
So at that point, I was still supposed to be.
Oh, okay.
And so your first official command assignment is at final review your junior year.
By then you had some senior boots.
Where did you buy them?
The Hawlicks.
I mean I think there are other places you can buy them although they're
Some people hand make them in Houston and there's some other people know some family friends that can do it, but the majority of people still buy them in hogs.
How much did that cost?
I think ours were between six and seven hundred dollars.
And was that your money or mom and dad or?
No, most of it was my money.
Now what had you done in the summers?
Done internships almost all summer, each summer.
Okay.
And how did you feel when you put those boots on and went the first time in a senior regalia?
Well, I think it's really neat.
It's very special to see that you've come from, you know, three years comes and goes very, very quickly.
And it's neat to see how far you've come, you know, in a short period of time.
And it is.
It's special.
And it's scary at the same time when, you know, you finally realize there's nobody else out there to help you anymore.
So it's scary, but it's neat and it's exciting.
What special people were there for that first final review for you?
My mom and my grandparents were there.
Okay.
And then, let's see, then commencement and then off for the summer.
Now what are the duties of a Corps commander during the summer before their senior year?
What do you have to worry about?
The first thing I went to, it, it,
During that summer, I had to go do my advanced training for the Army.
Where?
At Fort Lewis, Washington.
So half the summer was spent there.
The other half was here just working on different projects, trying to get things ready for the fall.
You know, if it was getting some of the commander meetings and stuff like that ready or sometimes there would be some different small projects to work with with the Commandant on.
Now, did anybody either successfully or unsuccessfully try to let you in on some inside problem that nobody knew about that needed solving?
I don't know.
I think I began to see a lot of politics at that point.
And sometimes people would, people I don't think were ever very quiet about their problems.
At that point, I think I began to find that people were very public about their discerns.
The only time that people would get quiet was if it was about a particular individual.
But most people began to tell you exactly what they thought was wrong with the Corps.
People were very, very open about it.
And even adults, very, very open about what they thought was wrong.
What were the majority opinions?
Oh, there was no majority opinion.
They were wide and varied.
So, you know, it depended on what class year you were talking to.
What were the samples of some of the?
Everything from, you know, we need to have more women in the Corps to, you know, needs to,
There's not enough people taking care of their uniforms.
I'm tired of walking around and seeing people not shine their boots when they're going to class.
Everything from the smallest of nitpicky things to problems that really were out of my control.